---
layout: index
published: true
---
## Why Queer Cinema?

Welcome to my curriculum on queer cinema, designed for high school students. Cinema studies is a field that receives little attention in high schools, despite the significance of audiovisual communication in adolescents’ daily lives. Armed with the disciplinary tools of cinema studies, adolescents can be better equipped to critically examine the media that surrounds them. Additionally, analysis of film and television is highly engaging to many high school students, and high engagement with the primary texts of this course will lead students to higher engagement with the rigorous secondary texts in this course, which consist largely of queer theory and film criticism works. Ultimately, the goals of this course are to sharpen students’ analytical skills, engage them with core concepts in cinema and queer theory, and help them critically deconstruct and challenge homophobia and transphobia.

## Purpose
The purpose of this course is to introduce students to two fields: **cinema studies** and **queer theory.** By close-reading representations of LGBTQ people in film and television, and analyzing these films using film criticism and queer theory, students will develop a strong grasp of critical concepts in both cinema studies and queer theory.

* **Cinema Studies:** This course will introduce students to the standard tools of cinema studies, analyzing elements like cinematography, sound, and editing, to close-read visual media. In addition, this course will build on students’ skills with the standard tools of literary analysis, such as symbol and motif analysis, applying those techniques to film and television. Students will also be reading scholarly works of film criticism to support this work.
* **Queer Theory:** This course will also include the works of queer theorists whose work can be challenging to read in isolation but can become more comprehensible when examined in concert with cultural texts like the ones chosen for this course.

## Method
This contains lesson plans and materials designed for a **semester-long course** (17 weeks). The materials are broken into four units, organized by genre. Each unit contains four or five weeks of material, and each week contains three lessons, grounded in analyzing a single film from three different vantage points. This course will be designed for three class periods a week with students viewing films and independently prior to the start of the week. (The weekly schedule could easily be expanded into a four or five day a week, if that fits a particular school setting better).  For more information on the components included in each week, please see <a href="/course-in-a-box/modules/course systems/systems">course systems</a>.
* **Day 1: Close reading:** Following each weekly viewing, students will spend a class period close-reading significant scenes and discussing the film’s use of literary and cinematic techniques. 	
* **Day 2: Applying film criticism:** The following period, students will examine film criticism pieces that engage the specific film being discussed that week. This process will help students learn how to unpack and engage with academic scholarship, and will deepen students’ understandings of the film being examined that week.
* **Day 3: Applying queer theory:** At the end of each week, students will examine a brief work of queer theory and apply the theoretical frameworks utilized by the authors to that week’s film or show. This weekly cycle will provide students with opportunities to grapple with core concepts in queer theory and apply them to visual media.

## Background
This course was designed as my capstone project for an M.A. in English degree at Georgetown University. I designed this project based on my interdisciplinary studies in queer theory, film studies, and English. Prior to graduate school, I spent eight years teaching high school English in Newark, NJ and Chalmette, LA. For the last three years prior to graduate school, I developed AP English Language and Composition lesson plans used by up to ten other teachers in my school network. I bring to this project a passion for engaging students in critical conversations and fostering their love of literature, film and theory. I also bring to it many years of classroom experience – I know the challenges that teachers face in finding and creating engaging and high-quality curricular materials. I know that I can’t anticipate every teacher’s needs; I’ve built this course assuming that teachers will need to adapt these materials based on student interest, skill level, and the constraints of each particular school’s schedule. However, it is my hope that teachers find these materials to be a useful framework and starting point for exploring two fields that typically receive little attention in high school classrooms, despite their potential for student engagement: cinema studies and queer studies. For more on my background, please see <a href="/course-in-a-box/modules/about me/_posts/modules">about me</a>.
